Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
adventure, fantasy film called “Ender’s Game.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Fifty years ago, an alien force known as the
Formics attacked Earth, killing millions of
people. They avoided destruction, however, with
the sacrifice of Earth's greatest commander,
Mazer Rackham. Since then, Earth has been
preparing for the Formics to attack by training
Earth's most brilliant children through war games.
They are placed in an academy and trained in a
program that focuses on their decision-making.
One of them is a kid named Andrew Ender Wiggin.
He is the youngest of three siblings and is
the only one who is currently in the program.
One day, Ender is playing against
a random student and wins.
The student is angry that he lost and
wants to play again, but Ender refuses.
Unbeknownst to them, Colonel Hyrum
Graff, alongside Major Gwen Anderson,
monitors the whole game, particularly Ender’s
perspective. Graff shows interest in Ender,
thinking he has strong potential. Major Anderson
thinks otherwise, telling Graff that Ender may
not be a good leader. To determine this, they
test Ender to see how he handles rejection. They
tell Ender to head to the infirmary to remove his
monitor, which means that he is off the program.
Ender is confused but he couldn't do anything,
so they remove his monitor. On the way out of the
infirmary, the kid from earlier and his friends
stop Ender and drag him to a nearby science lab.
The kid, still frustrated from the loss,
invites Ender to a fistfight one on one,
now that his monitor was gone. Ender doesn't want
to fight, but the kid prevents him from exiting,
so Ender takes a blunt object, hits him in the
face, and knocks the kid down by surprise. He then
follows this up by kicking the kid repeatedly
until the other kids tell him to stop. Ender
is still on guard while the others are stunned.
Ender then warns the kids not to mess with him.
Colonel Graff and Major Gwen are still watching
the whole fight, and Graff is impressed at Ender.
Back home, Ender tells his older sister,
Valentine, that he's off the program akin
to his brother Peter, who Ender fears he might
become like. Val tries comforting Ender by telling
him otherwise. Peter shows up, frustrated at the
news about Ender, and invites him to a fistfight
in the form of a game. Peter ruthlessly pins
Ender down, choking him, and voices out his
frustration of supposedly being chosen for
the program. He stops when Ender yields.
Later that night, the family has dinner together,
and Ender starts deprecating himself. The family,
except Peter, comforts him. His father then
tells Ender that the program was challenging,
so he has nothing to be ashamed of. Suddenly,
Colonel Graff and Major Anderson show up at their
front door. They interrogate Ender about the fight
and why he kept kicking the kid even though he was
already down. Ender replies that strategically,
knocking the kid down was the first fight, and
repeatedly kicking him wins the next ones. Colonel
then gets straight to the point and invites Ender
again to the program due to how tactical he
was about the fight. The parents do not like
how the Colonel thinks about Ender's violence,
so the Colonel demands he speak to Ender alone.
Outside the house, the Colonel tells Ender that
they need young people with brilliant minds
like him to stop the Formics from attacking
forever. He further tells Ender that he will
be graduating to battle school to train. Ender
acknowledges this as his destiny and leaves home.
Ender, Graff, and Andersen arrive at the shuttle
to take them to the battle school in outer space.
There, Ender meets his classmates. He
takes the seat at the back and meets Bean,
and they make fun of each other's names.
Shortly after, the shuttle launches for space,
and some students can’t handle zero gravity. Alai,
one of the students, starts throwing up but not
before Bean immediately hands him a bag. Colonel
Graff then enters the room to check on everyone.
He sees Ender smiling, so he asks him why. Ender,
being smart, explains that the way the Colonel
floats is funny. The Colonel once again praises
him for his intelligence and tells the entire
class that Ender is the smartest kid in the room,
attracting their attention to him. However, this
extra attention makes Ender feel uncomfortable.
The shuttle arrives at Battle School, which is
a massive spaceship. The students head over to
their respective rooms. Ender then checks his
closet and sees his suit and a type of gun.
But before he could pull it
out, Sergeant James Dap arrives.
Dap debriefs them condescendingly and
tells them to work as a team. In the class,
Graff gives a speech to the students about their
responsibility. He then shows them the infamous
video of how Mazer Rackham sacrificed his life by
crashing his jet into the Formic ship, destroying
it and saving humanity. The class is inspired,
but Ender feels something off about the video.
The next day, Dap wakes the students and tells
them to wear their battle suits and holster
their weapons. The students then make their way to
the Battle Room, where Draff is waiting for them.
Draff tells the students that the battle room
has zero gravity. He then opens the room and
lets Ender enter first. Ender enters and starts
floating inside, amazed about the zero gravity.
The rest of the class then enters. Bean heads
over to Ender, and they converse about controlling
their movement in zero gravity. They then wonder
what the weapon does, so Ender fires a test shot
and proves it harmless. They then try shooting
each other in the leg, which freezes their leg.
Ender excitingly tells Bean to try shooting him in
the chest resulting in his entire body freezing.
Shortly after, Draff pulls all
the students back near the gate.
Draff tells them that they need to
compete against other teams in the school.
He then lets Dap explain the rules of the game.
Dap tells them the scoring system but the ultimate
win condition, regardless of the scores, is to
let a teammate enter the enemy gate unfrozen.
Ender writes an email to Valentine.
He tells her his experience at battle
school and how relentless their training is.
They have been taught hand-to-hand combat,
provoking Ender's thoughts about Peter. He then
expresses that no one adequately talks about how
Mazer Rackham actually defeated the Formics
and still doesn't know how the Formics think.
He also expresses that the Colonel expects him to
be a good leader, but he doesn't know how to be
one. Ender then ends the letter by asking why she
doesn't write back and that he misses Valentine.
Dap then enters the room, and with him, Graff.
Graff tells them that they need to work hard
and not think of each other as friends but
as competition. Out of the blue, Ender asks
Graff if the school blocks their emails. Graff
confirms this and tells Ender that they don’t need
distractions from their families. Graff leaves,
but Dap is infuriated with Ender's questions,
so he shouts at him and makes him do push-ups.
Dap tells Ender that he will never salute him, to
which Ender replies that he definitely will soon.
Dap makes him do more push-ups and makes his point
clear. Dap then tells everyone to get some rest
and leaves. The rest of the class smiles at Ender.
While in bed, Ender stumbles upon
a game programmed by the school.
He plays as a rat who meets a troll that lets him
choose from two goblets, one of which is poisoned.
This wakes Alai, so he watches Ender
play the game. Ender tries both goblets,
which are both poisoned, so he
attacks and kills the troll instead.
Alai gets confused why, but Ender explains that
the academy wants to train them to be violent.
Meanwhile, Graff and Andersen watch
him again, and upon clearing the game,
they instantly promote him to a different team.
But before he heads over, Alai wishes him well.
Ender heads over to his new
team, the green salamanders,
who are known for being undefeated. There he
meets Dink, who wonders why he's there, Petra,
who welcomes him, and the rest. The captain,
Bonzo, is disappointed in Ender at first sight.
Bonzo tries to intimidate Ender and tells him that
his role in the games is to be a sitting duck.
Dink and Petra try to defend Ender, but Bonzo
shuts them up and dismisses Ender. Later on,
Petra invites Ender to practice with her, so
they suit up and head over to the battle room.
There, Petra teaches Ender how to aim and
shoot properly, showing him how it's done
and helping him with his posture. Ender
learns pretty fast, and Petra commends him.
The next day, Bonzo wakes his team, and they march
over to the battle room. Bonzo tells his team the
plan but excludes Ender, telling him to hang back
by the gate and watch. The game starts, and Ender
spectates from the gate. However, the Salamanders
are losing, so Ender joins and intercepts Petra.
The two of them devise a plan that would take
the enemies off guard. Petra pushes Ender,
and he plays dead until he grabs two guns and
initiates a one-man attack, and thus winning
them the game. At the cafeteria, one of the
players insults Bonzo for holding Ender back.
Later on, while Ender is training hand to hand
with Petra, Bonzo interrupts them. He then
punches Ender, threatening that he would kill him
if he does anything to make him look stupid again.
Later in bed, Ender continues playing
the game, but something weird happens.
The game goes on to show a desolate place
and a creature that morphs into Valentine.
Valentine then proceeds to lead him into a
creepy mansion. There, the rat turns into Ender,
and he sees Valentine locked inside a giant
crystal ball. A serpent attacks Ender,
but he violently kills it. Then all of a
sudden, Peter shows up in the crystal ball,
telling Ender that he has become a killer. This
scares Ender, so he stops playing the game.
It turns out that Colonel Graff was monitoring
the game and is infuriated with what happened.
Anderson tells him that she has no idea why that
happened, so Graff tells her to erase the game.
Later on, Graff calls for Ender to tell him
that he is doing very well. Ender tells him
that he doesn’t like Bonzo, so Graff offers
him to be the commander of a hidden team known
as the Dragon Army. Dap then shows Ender to
his new quarters and tells him that his new
teammates have been notified. Ender, doubting his
skill, asks Dap if he thinks they'll follow him.
Dap doesn't say anything but smiles and salutes to
Ender. Ender heads over to meet his team, who are
students from different teams gathered together,
namely: Dink, Bean, Alai, and others. Ender
tells them to respect each other and declares
that he intends to make them the best team.
Meanwhile, Graff is being pressed by the
International fleet to decide who graduates
from battle school, so Graff tells his men
to commence a sudden game. This alerts Ender,
so he immediately wakes his team up, telling them
that it's game time. Due to this being sudden,
one of the members twists their ankle, unable to
play, so Dink takes him to the infirmary while
the rest promptly head over to the battle room.
Ender feels that something is off, so he silently
checks the room first. Suddenly, Dink arrives
with Petra, joining Ender’s team on Graff’s
orders as a substitute. They then immediately plan
their attack. Ender deploys Dink as a meat shield
to Petra, and with her accurate aim, they wipe
out twelve players who were camping their gate.
Ender then ties a rope on Bean and deploys
him to scout the room for other players.
Bean spots all twenty players hiding, having
complete control of the area. They then fire at
Bean, so Ender pulls Bean back at base, and Bean
reports the situation. They then do a formation
that takes both teams by surprise. They use their
bodies to form a ship that protects Alai inside,
and they focused on heading straight
for the enemy gate, winning the game.
While Ender is taking a shower, Bonzo, infuriated,
enters and invites Ender to a fistfight one on
one. Ender tries to talk it through, but Bonzo
insists, so he starts running towards Ender.
Ender then hits Bonzo with the hot water from
the shower and tries to make a run for it. But
Bonzo stops him. Ender parries Bonzo’s punches and
almost breaks his arm but just warns him to stop.
Bonzo still tries to fight, but Ender
kicks him hard and makes him tumble,
lethally breaking his spinal cord.
Ender panics and calls for help.
Ender and Petra wait outside the
infirmary while Bonzo is being treated.
Anderson approaches Ender and tries sympathizing
with him. But Graff stops Anderson and tells her
and Petra to leave him alone with Ender. Ender
asks if Bonzo is dying, but Graff tells him that
they will send him back to Earth to recover. Ender
insists that he goes with Bonzo, but Graff refuses
to let him, so Ender tells Graff that he will
no longer continue training. Later on, Anderson
tells Graff that she will also resign, for she can
no longer handle the way Graff pressures Ender.
Back on Earth, Valentine is on her way home
and sees Graff's car outside the house,
so she hurries to meet Ender but only meets Graff
and her mom. Graff asks Valentine to come with him
to meet Ender alone. They arrive at a beach where
Ender was, and Valentine immediately runs to him.
Ender tells Valentine about Bonzo and expresses
how he thinks and truly feels when he fights,
which Valentine fully understands. Valentine
then tells Ender that Graff wants him to go back,
but Ender tells her that he won't cooperate.
So Valentine makes Ender understand that he
could be the next person who saves
humanity and that if he doesn't try,
they will all be lost. Ender finally understands
and tells Valentine that he'll miss her.
Graff and Ender go back to space once again.
Ender tells Graff never to block his emails again.
To Ender's surprise, they won't be going back
to battle school, but instead, they head for the
command base near the Formics' home planet, where
he'll begin his final training. They arrive on a
Formic planet where they once drove the Formics
back to their home planet and established a base.
Ender asks that if the Formic is contained in
their home planet, why do they even go to war.
Graff explains that similar to how he kicked
the bully, they need to prevent future wars
from happening. Sergeant Dap then shows
Ender to his room, and he goes to sleep.
Ender hears a very familiar noise and wakes
up, then looks around the window to see a
very familiar structure. He then looks away and
sees an old man with tattoos on his face waiting
beside his bed. Ender is surprised and asks who
he is. The man ruthlessly tests Ender for a bit,
telling him to be more discerning with his
enemies. The man then introduces himself to
be the one and only Mazer Rackham,
which leaves Ender surprised. Ender
tells Mazer his concerns about the video when he
sacrificed his life, asking why it's incomplete.
Mazer shows Ender the complete video, how he used
the emergency parachute to escape right before he
crashed. The video then shows that after he
blew up the ship, every other Formic died.
Mazer then explains that the Formics have a
queen, and when the queen dies, so will the rest.
And that's how he wiped out the entire fleet.
Ender asks Mazer if they have seen a queen, to
which he responds that no one has ever seen one.
Mazer then takes Ender to meet his teammates Bean,
Petra, Alai, Dink, who are happy to see him.
Mazer immediately debriefs them of the situation
on the Formics' home planet. It turns out that
the Formics are suffering from overpopulation
and are already unable to sustain themselves.
Despite that, their armies grow at an intensely
fast pace. The Formics plan to colonize more
planets, and their mission is to defeat them
before it's too late. The training will consist
of photo-real simulations of battles in which
Ender will command the overall strategy while
his team commands battle groups. They must also
protect his most important asset, a ship known
as the "Little Doctor," fully weaponized to
cause a chain reaction of disintegration, which
will wipe out an entire swarm with one shot.
Ender and his team begin training with
the simulations. But each simulation
becomes more and more complex and accurate.
They are pressured to win day after
day for months and start losing sleep.
In one simulation, Ender tries micro-managing
everything, and they get swarmed, failing the
simulation. Mazer gets angry at Ender, telling him
that they can't keep losing at an unforgiving war.
Mazer then tells Ender that he has trained
failures in the past, but Ender will be the last.
Graff tells him that there's no more time, so
Ender's final simulation will have to be tomorrow.
That night, Ender wonders how the Formics think.
He speaks with Petra and shares his thoughts,
curious about communication with the formics.
Petra tells him it's impossible and insists that
they sleep for the final simulation. Ender
agrees, and they bid each other goodnight.
The next day comes, and Ender heads over to
the battle room to meet his teammates. There,
the superiors will be spectating their
simulation. Graff tells him that they will
promote him to battle commander if they
are victorious in the final simulation.
Mazer tells them that the final simulation
will be staged at the Formic home planet and
wishes them good luck. Ender and his team begin
the simulation. Immediately, they see a fleet
of Formic ships waiting for them. Ender tells
Petra to fire the Little Doctor immediately. He
then commands Alai to engage, causing the Formic
fleet to start swarming. Petra then fires at the
center and wipes out the entire fleet. But this
prompts the Formics to send their entire army,
a massive fleet from the planet, to attack them.
Petra needs minutes to recharge, so Ender commands
all drones to gather around the Little Doctor,
forming a shield. Ender abandons the entire rest
of the fleet and tells Petra to head straight
for the planet. They are heavily overwhelmed
by the swarm and are entering the atmosphere
burning the shield faster with the heat. Petra
still doesn't have a clear shot, so Ender commands
Bean's drones to clear up the front for a shot.
They are now running out of time until
amidst the heat of the battle, the Little
Doctor finished recharging, and Petra shoots the
planet, destroying every living creature in it.
They then celebrate their success until Graff
shows them the planet again and tells Ender that
they already won the war and that the simulation
was real all along. Ender committed genocide and
destroyed the entire Formic fleet. Ender cannot
grasp the terror of what he did and walks out
of the room in disgust. Graff tries to approach
him, but Ender yells at telling him that they
could've been more reasonable. Graff argues that
all that matters is that they won, and Ender
will be remembered as a hero. But Ender angrily
refutes Graff, telling him that he will bear the
shame of the genocide forever and that the way
they win is what matters. Ender walks away, but
they sedate him and take him to his room. Petra
stays with Ender so that he may not feel alone.
While asleep, Ender dreams about the game and
everything he ever thought about the Formics
until he came to a conclusion. He immediately
wakes up and runs towards the exit of the base,
and Petra chases him. Petra takes an oxygen
bag and gives one to Ender outside. Ender
explains that the familiar structure was from the
game. It turns out that the Formics were able to
access the game to try and communicate
to Ender. Petra tells Ender to stop,
but he convinces her that he has to go. So
she let Ender make his way for the structure.
Ender finds himself in a Formic hive,
and deep inside, he sees a living egg.
And guarding the egg was the queen, the
last of the Formics, the creature from
the game. The queen surprisingly understands
Ender's sentiments and wipes his tears. Ender
understands that the queen is dying and that all
she wants to do now is prevent their extinction.
Ender promises the queen that he will find
a new home for the egg and preserve them.
Ender writes to Valentine one last time, telling
her everything that had happened and what he will
do to make amends. He tells her that he misses
her so much, but he won't be back for a while.
The superiors awarded Ender the rank of
admiral, letting him do what he wants.
Ender uses this opportunity to take a ship and
his precious cargo with him. Ender must now
travel the universe in search of a new home
for the Formics and carry out his promise.